Myanmar where fighting is escalating
between the military jent and rebel
groups in the East the violence has been
focused near the Border Town of mwadi an
important trade Hub and a source of
revenue for the cash strapped military
Rebels say that hundreds of soldiers
have now surrendered Thailand has also
increased security along that border as
people in Myanmar try to flee the
fighting the rebel groups have made
significant gains in recent weeks
weakening the military's grip on power
well let's speak to Tony Chang he's been
following the story for us and he joins
us now from the ti Border City of mesot
Tony Myanmar seems to have suffered a
series of defeats recently including in
a strategic town just over that border
behind you what is the state of the
fighting there
now well I think it's not a defeat yet
uh we understand there was fighting from
early this morning a continue throughout
the day fighting so fierce in fact that
it could be heard on this side of the
Border in mesad
until about 4 hours ago then it seems to
have ceased we haven't heard anything
since we've been here but security is
very tight the ti is clearly taking no
chances we've got a lot of tha military
presence a couple of Humvees just uh 100
meters down the road with big machine
guns a grenade launcher on the back lots
of soldiers on foot on the other side of
the Border things look a little bit more
relaxed we understand security has been
passed from the the military to
transitional Border guard Force they say
they are there simply to ensure the
peaceful transition that does seem to be
happening at the moment we haven't heard
uh of any U any fighting close to the
Border Point people are still coming
across hundreds have been fleeing the
fighting during the day coming into
Thailand and people are still coming
across the border uh those troops say
they will leave as soon as the Kent
ethnic armies who've been leading this
fight against the government troops uh
enter this area they will back away and
hand over power uh but at this stage
that one remaining Battalion of
government troops have not
uh surrendered as I think the Kem were
hoping they might do we understand there
are also reinforcements coming from the
provincial capital pan uh a couple of
armored vehicles and 20 trucks of troops
so they may be re being reinforced I
think that's an indication of just how
important miaw is it's a vital trade
town a billion dollars worth of goods
goes across this border every year and
it's clearly something the military
don't want to give up so the battle's
still clearly ongoing there Tony but
this all obviously also has Regional
implications especially for Thailand who
as you've said they've had to deal with
people hundreds of them fleeing across
that border how is Bangkok engaging on
all of
this well I think we've seen a slight
change of policy from Bangkok which
after the military coup had really been
myanmar's main friend within Asen think
much to the irritation of other other
asan nations who felt that it was
blocking asan pressure on Myanmar to try
and force some kind of peace or at least
some kind of transitional government um
we've heard from the Tha prime minister
he now recognizes that the military is
in a difficult situation we've also
heard from the foreign minister that
Thailand is making pre operations to
receive as many as a 100,000 refugees
across its borders but I think Thailand
will be uh trying very hard to provide
temporary accommodation for people who
do seek Refuge over their borders but to
get them back as soon as meamar is
secure and I think the hope is here that
this fighting happens quickly is wrapped
up and everyone can go back home Tony
Chang in the thick of things for us in
mot the Thai border city bordering
Myanmar there thank you very very much
Tony make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer